# PTFE Migration Modules

This repo contains a terraform module that has been specially crafted to be compatible with
the state generated by https://github.com/hashicorp/terraform-enterprise-modules, allowing
for existing AMI based installation to be migration to installer based directly.

## Setup

### State and Files

Copy your tfvars file and terraform.tfstate file over from the directory they are in when using
the AMI to the a new directory. All commands will be run out of that same directory, with these
terraform modules being located at `./terraform` in that directory.

### Data Migration

The AMI instance must be prepared before any of the new terraform is used. Use SSH to access
the instance and download the migration tool by running:

```
$ curl -O https://s3.amazonaws.com/hashicorp-ptfe-data/migrator
$ chmod a+x migrator
```

Next, run the migrator tool to move some data off the AMI and into your PostgreSQL installation.

```
$ sudo ./migrator

```

It will ask you to run again to confirm that you wish to run this step as it shutdows operations
on the instance to ensure the consistency of the data:

```
$ sudo ./migrator -confirm
```

Next the migration will run and move the data into PostgreSQL and output the Encryption Password
value that you need to specify to use this terraform module. The output will end with output
similar to:

```
Provide this value as the encryption password in the migration tfvars file:
   jIQzYXtNZNKfkyHbj2WHqTkrSQPkeX8gCrfPAkJHZ5s

```


The value `jIQzYXtNZNKfkyHbj2WHqTkrSQPkeX8gCrfPAkJHZ5s` here will be different for your run of the
migrator tool. Copy that value and add it to your tfvar files like:

```
encryption_password = "jIQzYXtNZNKfkyHbj2WHqTkrSQPkeX8gCrfPAkJHZ5s<Paste>
```

### License File

Place your Terraform Enterprise license file on your local disk and specify the path to it
in the tfvars file like:

```
license_file = "/path/to/license.rli"
```

Where the value is the path on your disk. If you put it in the current directory, you can
specify just the name rather than the full path.

## Initialize

You're now ready to initialize the new terraform modules:

```
terraform init ./terraform/aws-standard
```

## Application

Now we're ready to terraform! 

Run `terraform plan ./terraform/aws-standard` to see the changes that will be made. Double check that they are
correct before continuning. You should not see any changes to your `aws_db_instance` or `aws_s3_bucket`.
If you do, please contact support before continiuing.

When you're satified with the plan, apply it: `terraform apply ./terraform/aws-standard`. This will remove the AMI
instance and boot one running the installer in it's place, configured with all the values provided
by the existing terraform state, plus the license and encryption password you added.

When the terraform completes, you now having a migrated instance!

## Availability

This module runs with the same availability as the AMI did. It is protected against instance loss by
the Auto Scaling Group and boots the new instance automatically without the need for further configuration.

## Software Upgrades

This module installs the latest version of the software automatically upon boot. So an easy way to upgrade
the software is simply to shutdown the instance. When the Auto Scaling Group boots a new one, it will
install the new software and resume operation.

Alternatively, you can upgrade the software from the management console, available on port 8800.

## Management Console

The ELB is modified to provide access to the management console for the installer on port 8800. It is
configured with an autogenerated password that is available in the terraform state (you will see it
as one of the outputs when applying the new terraform modules).

